README.md, before:

# JKJR Portfolio & Blog

A modern, performant portfolio and blog built with Next.js and React.

## Architecture

This project uses Next.js for:

- Marketing pages
- Blog content
- Static content
- Interactive features

### Core Features

- Content-focused blog system with search, tags, and categories
- Project showcase with detailed case studies
- Interactive portfolio with animated background
- Contact system with form validation
- Performance optimized with adaptive components
- SEO friendly with metadata and structured data
- Theme-aware components with dark/light mode support
- Responsive design with mobile-first approach

## Tech Stack

### Frontend

- Next.js 15
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
- React Context API
- Framer Motion for animations

### Backend & API

- AWS AppSync (GraphQL API)
- AWS DynamoDB
- IAM Role-based Authentication
- AWS Lambda
- AWS Amplify Hosting

### Build & Deploy

- Node.js
- AWS Amplify
- GitHub Actions

### Content

- MDX for blog posts
- Image optimization pipeline
- WebP with PNG fallbacks

## Documentation Flow & Hierarchy

This project follows a bidirectional documentation flow to maintain consistency across the codebase:

1. **README.md (Top Level)**: Contains high-level project overview, architecture, features, and setup instructions.
2. **Documentation Files (/docs)**: Detailed documentation on specific aspects of the system.
3. **Code Comments**: Implementation details and local explanations.

The documentation follows this hierarchy:

- Core concepts flow from README → docs → code comments
- Implementation details flow from code comments → docs → README
- Updates in any level should propagate to maintain consistency

This bidirectional flow ensures that our AI Vibe Agent can maintain better content in working memory while assisting with development.

## AppSync IAM Authentication

This project uses IAM role-based authentication for AppSync integration instead of API keys:

```typescript
// Example of IAM authentication with AppSync in the contact form API
const signer = new SignatureV4({
  credentials: defaultProvider(),
  region: process.env.AWS_REGION || 'us-east-1',
  service: 'appsync',
  sha256: Sha256
})

// Sign the request with SigV4
const signedRequest = await signer.sign(requestToBeSigned)
```

Benefits of this approach:

- Improved security through temporary credentials
- Fine-grained access control with IAM policies
- No need to manage API keys in environment variables
- Consistent authentication pattern across services

For detailed implementation, see:

- [AppSync IAM Authentication Docs](docs/APPSYNC_IAM_AUTHENTICATION.md)
- [Contact Form IAM Solution](docs/CONTACT_FORM_IAM_SOLUTION.md)
- Implementation script: `scripts/setup-appsync-iam.sh`

## Project Structure

```
.
├── app/                    # Next.js app directory
│   ├── blog/              # Blog pages and routes
│   ├── dev-log/           # Development log pages
│   ├── projects/          # Project showcase pages
│   └── page.tsx           # Home page
├── components/            # Shared React components
│   ├── blog/             # Blog-specific components
│   ├── layout/           # Layout components
│   ├── common/           # Reusable UI components
│   └── EnhancedBackgroundAnimation.tsx # Animated background
├── content/              # MDX content and assets
├── docs/                 # Project documentation
│   ├── MIGRATION_PLAN.md
│   ├── VISUAL_SYSTEM.md
│   ├── CODEBASE.md
│   ├── APPSYNC_IAM_AUTHENTICATION.md
│   └── CONTACT_FORM_IAM_SOLUTION.md
├── public/               # Static assets
│   └── images/
├── scripts/             # Build and utility scripts
│   ├── process-images.js
│   └── setup-appsync-iam.sh
├── styles/              # Global styles
└── types/               # TypeScript definitions
```

## Image Management

This project uses a structured approach to manage blog and project images:

### Image Processing Workflow

1. **Source Images**

   - Place original images in `/public/content/assets/`
   - Use naming convention with "blog-" prefix for blog images
   - Use naming convention with "project-" prefix for project images

2. **Process Images**

   ```bash
   npm run process-images
   ```

   This optimizes images and converts them to WebP format.

3. **Reference in Content**
   - Blog posts: `featuredImage: "/images/blog/featured/your-image.webp"`
   - Projects: `featuredImage: "/images/projects/your-image.webp"`

### Image Error Handling

The `BlogImage` component (`components/common/BlogImage.tsx`) is used to handle image loading errors gracefully:

- Automatically falls back to a placeholder when images are missing
- Shows debugging information in development mode
- Maintains the same API as Next.js Image component

### Common Image Issues

If you encounter 404 errors for blog images:

1. Check image references in blog posts
2. Verify images exist in the correct directories
3. Run the image processing script
4. See `docs/IMAGE_LOADING_FIXES.md` for detailed troubleshooting

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm 9+
- Git
- AWS CLI (for IAM policy setup)

### Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm install`
3. Set up AWS credentials for local development
4. Configure AppSync IAM authentication: `./scripts/setup-appsync-iam.sh --api-id YOUR_API_ID`
5. Create `.env.local` with required environment variables:
   ```
   APPSYNC_API_URL=https://your-appsync-endpoint.appsync-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/graphql
   AWS_REGION=us-east-1
   ```
6. Run development server: `npm run dev`
7. Open http://localhost:3000

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build production bundle
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run process-images` - Process and optimize images
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run test` - Run tests

## Documentation

- [Migration Plan](docs/MIGRATION_PLAN.md) - Detailed migration strategy
- [Visual System](docs/VISUAL_SYSTEM.md) - Design system documentation
- [CODEBASE.md](docs/CODEBASE.md) - Codebase architecture and standards
- [Animation Troubleshooting](docs/ANIMATION_TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Animation component documentation
- [Tailwind Troubleshooting](docs/TAILWIND_TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Tailwind CSS configuration and troubleshooting
- [Website Retooling](docs/WEBSITE_RETOOLING.md) - Website retooling plan and progress
- [AppSync IAM Authentication](docs/APPSYNC_IAM_AUTHENTICATION.md) - IAM authentication implementation for AppSync
- [Contact Form IAM Solution](docs/CONTACT_FORM_IAM_SOLUTION.md) - Contact form authentication solution

### Content Management and Database

- [Content Management Guide](docs/CONTENT_MANAGEMENT.md) - Guide for managing content with dual-source architecture
- [Content Workflow](docs/CONTENT_WORKFLOW.md) - Detailed content creation and publishing workflow
- [Database Schema](docs/DATABASE_SCHEMA.md) - DynamoDB and GraphQL schema documentation
- [GraphQL API Implementation](docs/GRAPHQL_API.md) - GraphQL API implementation and schema compatibility
- [AppSync Security Guide](docs/APPSYNC_SECURITY.md) - Security considerations for AppSync and API keys
- [Testing Guide](docs/TESTING.md) - Guide for testing production and development code
- [Backend SPA Setup](docs/BACKEND_SPA_SETUP.md) - Backend admin SPA setup and configuration

## Performance Targets

- Lighthouse score ≥ 95
- First Contentful Paint < 1.5s
- Time to Interactive < 3.5s
- Core Web Vitals passing

## Security

- HTTPS enforced
- CSP headers
- Input sanitization
- Regular dependency updates
- IAM role-based authentication for AWS services
- Fine-grained access control with IAM policies

## Accessibility

- WCAG AA compliance
- Semantic HTML
- Keyboard navigation
- Screen reader support

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch
3. Commit changes
4. Push to branch
5. Open pull request

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file

## Contact

For questions or feedback, please open an issue or reach out through the contact form on the website.

## File Structure

- `content/`: Contains all blog posts and project descriptions in markdown format
- `public/`: Publicly accessible files like processed images and static assets
- `scripts/`: Utility scripts for image processing and other tasks
- `src/`: Source code for the website
  - `src/app/`: Next.js app router pages and layouts
  - `src/components/`: React components used across the site
  - `src/utils/`: Utility functions and helpers
  - `src/assets/`: Unprocessed files and source images before optimization

## Image Processing

Raw images should be placed in the `public/content/assets` directory with proper naming:

- For blog images: Include "blog" in the filename
- For project images: Include "project" in the filename
- Logo: Named "JKJR3.png"

Then run the image processing script to optimize the images:

```bash
npm run process-images
```

This will:

- Process blog images to `/public/images/blog/featured/` (1200px width, WebP format)
- Process project images to `/public/images/projects/` (1200px width, WebP format)
- Process the logo to both PNG and WebP formats
- Automatically create any necessary directories

Always process images before using them on the website to ensure optimal performance.

## Deployment to AWS Amplify

This project is configured to deploy to AWS Amplify. To deploy:

1. Push your changes to the GitHub repository
2. In the AWS Management Console:

   - Go to AWS Amplify
   - Select "New app" > "Host web app"
   - Choose GitHub as the repository source
   - Select the jeff-content repository
   - Keep the default branch (main)
   - Review the build settings (should automatically detect Next.js)
   - Confirm and deploy

3. **Set up IAM Roles for Authentication**:
   - For contact form: `./scripts/setup-amplify-iam.sh`
   - For AppSync authentication: `./scripts/setup-appsync-iam.sh --api-id YOUR_API_ID`
   - Follow the instructions to attach the roles to your Amplify app
   - Redeploy your app after attaching the roles
   - Set required environment variables in the Amplify Console

## Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run the development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm run start
```

## Content Management

Content is stored in the following locations:

- Blog posts: `/content/blog/`
- Projects: `/content/projects/`
- Unprocessed image assets: `/src/assets/`
- Processed images for the website: `/public/images/`

## Image Processing

Images are processed using Sharp to optimize them for web:

```bash
# Process a specific image
node scripts/resize-blog-image.js

# Convert HEIC to JPG
node scripts/convert-profile-image.js
```

## Environment Setup

The website is built with:

- Next.js 15
- React 19
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS

Commit message:

Revise README and documentation for image management workflow, emphasizing the use of AWS S3 and CloudFront. Update markdown files to include new metadata fields such as datePublished, tags, and status. Enhance content management instructions for adding and syncing images, ensuring clarity on the image processing script's role. Improve error handling in the import script and refine GraphQL error handling in the AppSync client.

README.md, after:

# JKJR Portfolio & Blog

A modern, performant portfolio and blog built with Next.js and React.

## Architecture

This project uses Next.js for:

- Marketing pages
- Blog content
- Static content
- Interactive features

### Core Features

- Content-focused blog system with search, tags, and categories
- Project showcase with detailed case studies
- Interactive portfolio with animated background
- Contact system with form validation
- Performance optimized with adaptive components
- SEO friendly with metadata and structured data
- Theme-aware components with dark/light mode support
- Responsive design with mobile-first approach

## Tech Stack

### Frontend

- Next.js 15
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
- React Context API
- Framer Motion for animations

### Backend & API

- AWS AppSync (GraphQL API)
- AWS DynamoDB
- IAM Role-based Authentication
- AWS Lambda
- AWS Amplify Hosting

### Build & Deploy

- Node.js
- AWS Amplify
- GitHub Actions

### Content

- MDX for blog posts
- Image optimization pipeline
- WebP with PNG fallbacks

## Documentation Flow & Hierarchy

This project follows a bidirectional documentation flow to maintain consistency across the codebase:

1. **README.md (Top Level)**: Contains high-level project overview, architecture, features, and setup instructions.
2. **Documentation Files (/docs)**: Detailed documentation on specific aspects of the system.
3. **Code Comments**: Implementation details and local explanations.

The documentation follows this hierarchy:

- Core concepts flow from README → docs → code comments
- Implementation details flow from code comments → docs → README
- Updates in any level should propagate to maintain consistency

This bidirectional flow ensures that our AI Vibe Agent can maintain better content in working memory while assisting with development.

## AppSync IAM Authentication

This project uses IAM role-based authentication for AppSync integration instead of API keys:

```typescript
// Example of IAM authentication with AppSync in the contact form API
const signer = new SignatureV4({
  credentials: defaultProvider(),
  region: process.env.AWS_REGION || 'us-east-1',
  service: 'appsync',
  sha256: Sha256
})

// Sign the request with SigV4
const signedRequest = await signer.sign(requestToBeSigned)
```

Benefits of this approach:

- Improved security through temporary credentials
- Fine-grained access control with IAM policies
- No need to manage API keys in environment variables
- Consistent authentication pattern across services

For detailed implementation, see:

- [AppSync IAM Authentication Docs](docs/APPSYNC_IAM_AUTHENTICATION.md)
- [Contact Form IAM Solution](docs/CONTACT_FORM_IAM_SOLUTION.md)
- Implementation script: `scripts/setup-appsync-iam.sh`

## Project Structure

```
.
├── app/                    # Next.js app directory
│   ├── blog/              # Blog pages and routes
│   ├── dev-log/           # Development log pages
│   ├── projects/          # Project showcase pages
│   └── page.tsx           # Home page
├── components/            # Shared React components
│   ├── blog/             # Blog-specific components
│   ├── layout/           # Layout components
│   ├── common/           # Reusable UI components
│   └── EnhancedBackgroundAnimation.tsx # Animated background
├── content/              # MDX content and assets
├── docs/                 # Project documentation
│   ├── MIGRATION_PLAN.md
│   ├── VISUAL_SYSTEM.md
│   ├── CODEBASE.md
│   ├── APPSYNC_IAM_AUTHENTICATION.md
│   └── CONTACT_FORM_IAM_SOLUTION.md
├── public/               # Static assets
│   └── images/
├── scripts/             # Build and utility scripts
│   ├── process-images.js
│   └── setup-appsync-iam.sh
├── styles/              # Global styles
└── types/               # TypeScript definitions
```

## Image Management (S3/CloudFront Workflow)

This project standardizes on using AWS S3 and CloudFront for hosting and serving optimized blog and project images.

### Image Synchronization Workflow

1.  **Source Images:** Place original images (e.g., `my-image.jpg`) in `/public/content/assets/`.
2.  **Link in Markdown:** In the corresponding markdown file (`content/blog/post-slug.md`), add/update the `ogImage:` frontmatter field to reference the _source_ image filename (e.g., `ogImage: my-image.jpg`). _Note: The script uses `ogImage` as the primary link._
3.  **Run Sync Script:** Execute `npm run process-images`.
    - This script reads the `ogImage` field from each markdown file.
    - Finds the matching source image in assets.
    - Processes the image (optimize, convert to WebP).
    - Uploads the processed WebP image to the S3 bucket (`jeff-dev-blog-images/featured/`).
    - Updates the `featuredImage` and `ogImage` fields in the markdown file with the final absolute CloudFront URL (`https://d309xicbd1a46e.cloudfront.net/featured/...`).
4.  **Import Content:** Run `npm run blog:import` to sync the markdown content (with updated CloudFront image URLs) to DynamoDB.
5.  **Commit & Deploy:** Commit the updated markdown files and deploy.

### Image Configuration

- **S3 Bucket:** `jeff-dev-blog-images`
- **CloudFront Domain:** `d309xicbd1a46e.cloudfront.net`
- **S3 Path Prefix:** `featured/`
- Configuration is handled via environment variables (`S3_BUCKET_NAME`, `CLOUDFRONT_DOMAIN`, `AWS_REGION`).

### Image Error Handling

The `BlogImage` component (`components/common/BlogImage.tsx`) handles potential loading errors gracefully by showing a fallback if an image URL (from the database) fails to load.

### Common Image Issues

If images aren't displaying correctly:

1.  Verify the `ogImage` field in the markdown frontmatter correctly references the source asset filename.
2.  Ensure the source image exists in `/public/content/assets/`.
3.  Run `npm run process-images` and check its output for errors (e.g., missing source file, S3 upload issues).
4.  Run `npm run blog:import` to ensure the database has the correct CloudFront URL.
5.  Check network requests in the browser dev tools to see if the correct CloudFront URL is being requested and if there are any errors (e.g., 403 Forbidden from S3/CloudFront permissions).

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm 9+
- Git
- AWS CLI (for IAM policy setup)

### Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm install`
3. Set up AWS credentials for local development
4. Configure AppSync IAM authentication: `./scripts/setup-appsync-iam.sh --api-id YOUR_API_ID`
5. Create `.env.local` with required environment variables:
   ```
   APPSYNC_API_URL=https://your-appsync-endpoint.appsync-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/graphql
   AWS_REGION=us-east-1
   ```
6. Run development server: `npm run dev`
7. Open http://localhost:3000

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build production bundle
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run process-images` - Process and optimize images
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run test` - Run tests

## Documentation

- [Migration Plan](docs/MIGRATION_PLAN.md) - Detailed migration strategy
- [Visual System](docs/VISUAL_SYSTEM.md) - Design system documentation
- [CODEBASE.md](docs/CODEBASE.md) - Codebase architecture and standards
- [Animation Troubleshooting](docs/ANIMATION_TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Animation component documentation
- [Tailwind Troubleshooting](docs/TAILWIND_TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Tailwind CSS configuration and troubleshooting
- [Website Retooling](docs/WEBSITE_RETOOLING.md) - Website retooling plan and progress
- [AppSync IAM Authentication](docs/APPSYNC_IAM_AUTHENTICATION.md) - IAM authentication implementation for AppSync
- [Contact Form IAM Solution](docs/CONTACT_FORM_IAM_SOLUTION.md) - Contact form authentication solution

### Content Management and Database

- [Content Management Guide](docs/CONTENT_MANAGEMENT.md) - Guide for managing content with dual-source architecture
- [Content Workflow](docs/CONTENT_WORKFLOW.md) - Detailed content creation and publishing workflow
- [Database Schema](docs/DATABASE_SCHEMA.md) - DynamoDB and GraphQL schema documentation
- [GraphQL API Implementation](docs/GRAPHQL_API.md) - GraphQL API implementation and schema compatibility
- [AppSync Security Guide](docs/APPSYNC_SECURITY.md) - Security considerations for AppSync and API keys
- [Testing Guide](docs/TESTING.md) - Guide for testing production and development code
- [Backend SPA Setup](docs/BACKEND_SPA_SETUP.md) - Backend admin SPA setup and configuration

## Performance Targets

- Lighthouse score ≥ 95
- First Contentful Paint < 1.5s
- Time to Interactive < 3.5s
- Core Web Vitals passing

## Security

- HTTPS enforced
- CSP headers
- Input sanitization
- Regular dependency updates
- IAM role-based authentication for AWS services
- Fine-grained access control with IAM policies

## Accessibility

- WCAG AA compliance
- Semantic HTML
- Keyboard navigation
- Screen reader support

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch
3. Commit changes
4. Push to branch
5. Open pull request

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file

## Contact

For questions or feedback, please open an issue or reach out through the contact form on the website.

## File Structure

- `content/`: Contains all blog posts and project descriptions in markdown format
- `public/`: Publicly accessible files like processed images and static assets
- `scripts/`: Utility scripts for image processing and other tasks
- `src/`: Source code for the website
  - `src/app/`: Next.js app router pages and layouts
  - `src/components/`: React components used across the site
  - `src/utils/`: Utility functions and helpers
  - `src/assets/`: Unprocessed files and source images before optimization

## Image Processing

Raw images should be placed in the `public/content/assets` directory with proper naming:

- For blog images: Include "blog" in the filename
- For project images: Include "project" in the filename
- Logo: Named "JKJR3.png"

Then run the image processing script to optimize the images:

```bash
npm run process-images
```

This will:

- Process blog images to `/public/images/blog/featured/` (1200px width, WebP format)
- Process project images to `/public/images/projects/` (1200px width, WebP format)
- Process the logo to both PNG and WebP formats
- Automatically create any necessary directories

Always process images before using them on the website to ensure optimal performance.

## Deployment to AWS Amplify

This project is configured to deploy to AWS Amplify. To deploy:

1. Push your changes to the GitHub repository
2. In the AWS Management Console:

   - Go to AWS Amplify
   - Select "New app" > "Host web app"
   - Choose GitHub as the repository source
   - Select the jeff-content repository
   - Keep the default branch (main)
   - Review the build settings (should automatically detect Next.js)
   - Confirm and deploy

3. **Set up IAM Roles for Authentication**:
   - For contact form: `./scripts/setup-amplify-iam.sh`
   - For AppSync authentication: `./scripts/setup-appsync-iam.sh --api-id YOUR_API_ID`
   - Follow the instructions to attach the roles to your Amplify app
   - Redeploy your app after attaching the roles
   - Set required environment variables in the Amplify Console

## Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run the development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm run start
```

## Content Management

Content is stored in the following locations:

- Blog posts: `/content/blog/`
- Projects: `/content/projects/`
- Unprocessed image assets: `/src/assets/`
- Processed images for the website: `/public/images/`

## Image Processing

Images are processed using Sharp to optimize them for web:

```bash
# Process a specific image
node scripts/resize-blog-image.js

# Convert HEIC to JPG
node scripts/convert-profile-image.js
```

## Environment Setup

The website is built with:

- Next.js 15
- React 19
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
