docs/DEPLOYMENT_PLAN.md, before:

# AWS Amplify Deployment Plan

## Overview

This document outlines the strategy for deploying the Jeff Knowles Jr. content website to AWS Amplify, leveraging our existing AppSync setup for dynamic content where needed. Our goal is to create a streamlined, automated deployment pipeline with minimal downtime and maximum reliability.

## Pre-Deployment Checklist

- [ ] Review and finalize all content
- [ ] Run optimization scripts for images
- [ ] Perform accessibility audit
- [ ] Run performance benchmarks (Lighthouse)
- [ ] Verify SEO metadata on all pages
- [ ] Test cross-browser compatibility
- [ ] Test responsive layouts on multiple device sizes

## Deployment Strategy

### Phase 1: Environment Setup

1. **Create Amplify App**

   - Connect to GitHub repository
   - Configure build settings
   - Set up branch-based environments:
     - `main` → Production
     - `staging` → Staging/Testing

2. **Environment Variables**

   - Add required environment variables in Amplify console:
     ```
     NODE_ENV=production
     NEXT_PUBLIC_API_ENDPOINT={existing AppSync endpoint}
     NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://jeffknowlesjr.com
     ```

3. **Domain Setup**
   - Configure custom domain in Amplify console
   - Set up DNS records with registrar
   - Configure SSL certificate (Amplify provides this automatically)

### Phase 2: AppSync Integration

Since we already have an AppSync API set up, we'll integrate it with our new Amplify deployment:

1. **Authentication Configuration**

   - Confirm API keys or IAM roles for AppSync access
   - Store authentication tokens securely in environment variables
   - Implement token refresh mechanism if necessary

2. **GraphQL Schema Verification**

   - Verify our frontend GraphQL queries match the existing AppSync schema
   - Check for any deprecated fields or operations
   - Create utility functions for common GraphQL operations

3. **Client Configuration**

   ```javascript
   // src/libs/api-client.js
   import { API, graphqlOperation } from 'aws-amplify'

   // Configure Amplify to use existing AppSync endpoint
   const configureAmplifyAPI = () => {
     API.configure({
       API: {
         graphql_endpoint: process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_API_ENDPOINT,
         graphql_headers: async () => ({
           'api-key': process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_API_KEY
         })
       }
     })
   }

   export { configureAmplifyAPI }
   ```

### Phase 3: Build Configuration

Create an `amplify.yml` file at the project root:

```yaml
version: 1
frontend:
  phases:
    preBuild:
      commands:
        - npm ci
    build:
      commands:
        - npm run build
  artifacts:
    baseDirectory: .next
    files:
      - '**/*'
  cache:
    paths:
      - node_modules/**/*
      - .next/cache/**/*
```

### Phase 4: Progressive Rollout

1. **Initial Deployment (Staging)**

   - Deploy to staging environment
   - Run automated tests
   - Perform manual QA review
   - Validate performance metrics

2. **Production Deployment**

   - Schedule deployment during low-traffic window
   - Deploy to production environment
   - Run smoke tests post-deployment
   - Monitor error rates and performance

3. **Rollback Plan**
   - Document quick rollback process if issues arise
   - Keep previous build artifacts available
   - Ensure DNS TTL is set appropriately for fast switching if needed

## Performance Optimizations

### CDN Configuration

Amplify automatically provisions CloudFront distributions. Configure:

- Cache behaviors for static assets (long TTL)
- Cache behaviors for HTML (shorter TTL)
- Custom headers and security policies

### SSR/SSG Strategy

Leverage Next.js capabilities:

- Use `getStaticProps` for content that changes infrequently
- Use `getServerSideProps` only when necessary for dynamic content
- Configure ISR (Incremental Static Regeneration) for semi-dynamic pages

## Monitoring and Maintenance

### CloudWatch Alarms

Set up CloudWatch alarms for:

- 5xx error rates
- Response time thresholds
- Failed build notifications

### Regular Maintenance

Schedule:

- Weekly content updates
- Monthly dependency updates
- Quarterly security reviews

## Continuous Integration/Deployment

1. **GitHub Actions Workflow**

   ```yaml
   name: Build and Test

   on:
     push:
       branches: [main, staging]
     pull_request:
       branches: [main, staging]

   jobs:
     test:
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - uses: actions/checkout@v2
         - name: Setup Node.js
           uses: actions/setup-node@v2
           with:
             node-version: '18'
         - name: Install dependencies
           run: npm ci
         - name: Run linters
           run: npm run lint
         - name: Run tests
           run: npm test

     build:
       needs: test
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - uses: actions/checkout@v2
         - name: Setup Node.js
           uses: actions/setup-node@v2
           with:
             node-version: '18'
         - name: Install dependencies
           run: npm ci
         - name: Build
           run: npm run build
   ```

2. **Automated Preview Environments**
   - Configure Amplify to create preview environments for pull requests
   - Enforce code reviews before merging to staging/main

## Launch Timing and Promotion

### Launch Timeline

1. **T-7 Days**

   - Finalize all content
   - Complete pre-deployment checklist

2. **T-3 Days**

   - Deploy to staging
   - Final QA and performance testing

3. **T-1 Day**

   - Final content review
   - Prepare social media announcements

4. **Launch Day**
   - Deploy to production early morning
   - Announce on social media
   - Actively monitor metrics and performance

### Post-Launch

- Gather initial feedback
- Monitor analytics for user engagement
- Address any issues within 24 hours
- Send follow-up communications to promote content

## Cost Projections

Based on typical Next.js application hosting on Amplify:

| Service                 | Estimated Monthly Cost |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Amplify Hosting         | $30-50                 |
| CloudFront Distribution | $10-20                 |
| AppSync (existing)      | $0 (already budgeted)  |
| Lambda (if used)        | $5-15                  |
| **Total**               | **$45-85**             |

_Note: Costs can vary based on traffic and usage patterns_

## Launch Checklist

- [ ] Pre-deployment checklist completed
- [ ] Staging environment deployed and verified
- [ ] All tests passing
- [ ] Performance benchmarks meeting targets
- [ ] DNS configuration verified
- [ ] SSL certificates active
- [ ] Monitoring alerts configured
- [ ] Rollback plan documented and tested
- [ ] Content publishing workflow documented
- [ ] Team trained on deployment process

## Conclusion

This deployment plan provides a structured approach to launching our Next.js content website on AWS Amplify while leveraging our existing AppSync infrastructure. The phased rollout minimizes risk while ensuring high performance and reliability from day one.

By following this plan, we'll establish not just a successful initial deployment but also a sustainable process for ongoing updates and maintenance.

Commit message:

docs: update README and DEPLOYMENT_PLAN with IAM role setup instructions for contact form; enhance contact form submission logic to save data in DynamoDB with unique ID generation and improved error handling

docs/DEPLOYMENT_PLAN.md, after:

# AWS Amplify Deployment Plan

## Overview

This document outlines the strategy for deploying the Jeff Knowles Jr. content website to AWS Amplify, leveraging our existing AppSync setup for dynamic content where needed. Our goal is to create a streamlined, automated deployment pipeline with minimal downtime and maximum reliability.

## Pre-Deployment Checklist

- [ ] Review and finalize all content
- [ ] Run optimization scripts for images
- [ ] Perform accessibility audit
- [ ] Run performance benchmarks (Lighthouse)
- [ ] Verify SEO metadata on all pages
- [ ] Test cross-browser compatibility
- [ ] Test responsive layouts on multiple device sizes

## Deployment Strategy

### Phase 1: Environment Setup

1. **Create Amplify App**

   - Connect to GitHub repository
   - Configure build settings
   - Set up branch-based environments:
     - `main` → Production
     - `staging` → Staging/Testing

2. **Environment Variables**

   - Add required environment variables in Amplify console:
     ```
     NODE_ENV=production
     NEXT_PUBLIC_API_ENDPOINT={existing AppSync endpoint}
     NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://jeffknowlesjr.com
     ```

3. **Domain Setup**
   - Configure custom domain in Amplify console
   - Set up DNS records with registrar
   - Configure SSL certificate (Amplify provides this automatically)

### Phase 2: AppSync Integration

Since we already have an AppSync API set up, we'll integrate it with our new Amplify deployment:

1. **Authentication Configuration**

   - Confirm API keys or IAM roles for AppSync access
   - Store authentication tokens securely in environment variables
   - Implement token refresh mechanism if necessary

2. **GraphQL Schema Verification**

   - Verify our frontend GraphQL queries match the existing AppSync schema
   - Check for any deprecated fields or operations
   - Create utility functions for common GraphQL operations

3. **Client Configuration**

   ```javascript
   // src/libs/api-client.js
   import { API, graphqlOperation } from 'aws-amplify'

   // Configure Amplify to use existing AppSync endpoint
   const configureAmplifyAPI = () => {
     API.configure({
       API: {
         graphql_endpoint: process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_API_ENDPOINT,
         graphql_headers: async () => ({
           'api-key': process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_API_KEY
         })
       }
     })
   }

   export { configureAmplifyAPI }
   ```

4. **IAM Role Setup for Contact Form**

   - Create a custom IAM role for the Amplify app with permissions to write to DynamoDB
   - Attach the role to the Amplify app in the console
   - See [AMPLIFY_IAM_POLICY.md](./AMPLIFY_IAM_POLICY.md) for detailed instructions

### Phase 3: Build Configuration

Create an `amplify.yml` file at the project root:

```yaml
version: 1
frontend:
  phases:
    preBuild:
      commands:
        - npm ci
    build:
      commands:
        - npm run build
  artifacts:
    baseDirectory: .next
    files:
      - '**/*'
  cache:
    paths:
      - node_modules/**/*
      - .next/cache/**/*
```

### Phase 4: Progressive Rollout

1. **Initial Deployment (Staging)**

   - Deploy to staging environment
   - Run automated tests
   - Perform manual QA review
   - Validate performance metrics

2. **Production Deployment**

   - Schedule deployment during low-traffic window
   - Deploy to production environment
   - Run smoke tests post-deployment
   - Monitor error rates and performance

3. **Rollback Plan**
   - Document quick rollback process if issues arise
   - Keep previous build artifacts available
   - Ensure DNS TTL is set appropriately for fast switching if needed

## Performance Optimizations

### CDN Configuration

Amplify automatically provisions CloudFront distributions. Configure:

- Cache behaviors for static assets (long TTL)
- Cache behaviors for HTML (shorter TTL)
- Custom headers and security policies

### SSR/SSG Strategy

Leverage Next.js capabilities:

- Use `getStaticProps` for content that changes infrequently
- Use `getServerSideProps` only when necessary for dynamic content
- Configure ISR (Incremental Static Regeneration) for semi-dynamic pages

## Monitoring and Maintenance

### CloudWatch Alarms

Set up CloudWatch alarms for:

- 5xx error rates
- Response time thresholds
- Failed build notifications

### Regular Maintenance

Schedule:

- Weekly content updates
- Monthly dependency updates
- Quarterly security reviews

## Continuous Integration/Deployment

1. **GitHub Actions Workflow**

   ```yaml
   name: Build and Test

   on:
     push:
       branches: [main, staging]
     pull_request:
       branches: [main, staging]

   jobs:
     test:
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - uses: actions/checkout@v2
         - name: Setup Node.js
           uses: actions/setup-node@v2
           with:
             node-version: '18'
         - name: Install dependencies
           run: npm ci
         - name: Run linters
           run: npm run lint
         - name: Run tests
           run: npm test

     build:
       needs: test
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - uses: actions/checkout@v2
         - name: Setup Node.js
           uses: actions/setup-node@v2
           with:
             node-version: '18'
         - name: Install dependencies
           run: npm ci
         - name: Build
           run: npm run build
   ```

2. **Automated Preview Environments**
   - Configure Amplify to create preview environments for pull requests
   - Enforce code reviews before merging to staging/main

## Launch Timing and Promotion

### Launch Timeline

1. **T-7 Days**

   - Finalize all content
   - Complete pre-deployment checklist

2. **T-3 Days**

   - Deploy to staging
   - Final QA and performance testing

3. **T-1 Day**

   - Final content review
   - Prepare social media announcements

4. **Launch Day**
   - Deploy to production early morning
   - Announce on social media
   - Actively monitor metrics and performance

### Post-Launch

- Gather initial feedback
- Monitor analytics for user engagement
- Address any issues within 24 hours
- Send follow-up communications to promote content

## Cost Projections

Based on typical Next.js application hosting on Amplify:

| Service                 | Estimated Monthly Cost |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Amplify Hosting         | $30-50                 |
| CloudFront Distribution | $10-20                 |
| AppSync (existing)      | $0 (already budgeted)  |
| Lambda (if used)        | $5-15                  |
| **Total**               | **$45-85**             |

_Note: Costs can vary based on traffic and usage patterns_

## Launch Checklist

- [ ] Pre-deployment checklist completed
- [ ] Staging environment deployed and verified
- [ ] All tests passing
- [ ] Performance benchmarks meeting targets
- [ ] DNS configuration verified
- [ ] SSL certificates active
- [ ] Monitoring alerts configured
- [ ] Rollback plan documented and tested
- [ ] Content publishing workflow documented
- [ ] Team trained on deployment process

## Conclusion

This deployment plan provides a structured approach to launching our Next.js content website on AWS Amplify while leveraging our existing AppSync infrastructure. The phased rollout minimizes risk while ensuring high performance and reliability from day one.

By following this plan, we'll establish not just a successful initial deployment but also a sustainable process for ongoing updates and maintenance.
